README.md, before:

# typostry

A Next.js markdown editor with real-time preview, grammar checking, and theme support.

## Description

`typostry` is a feature-rich markdown editor built with Next.js that provides a seamless writing experience with real-time preview and advanced features like grammar checking, emoji support, and executable JavaScript code blocks.

## Features

### Markdown Editor
- Real-time markdown preview
- Toolbar with common markdown formatting shortcuts
- Theme support (light/dark)
- Emoji support using `:emoji_code:` syntax
- Executable JavaScript code blocks in preview mode
- Keyboard shortcuts for common operations

### Grammar Checking
- Real-time grammar and spelling error detection
- Suggestions for corrections
- Custom dictionary support
- Different severity levels for errors (low, medium, high)
- Error categorization (spelling, grammar, style, punctuation)

### File System Operations
- Create new files
- Open existing files directly from the local filesystem
- Save files directly to the opened file
- Save As functionality

## Limitations

- Grammar checking uses the LanguageTool API with the following limitations:
  - 20 requests per minute
  - 75KB per minute
  - 20KB per request
  - Maximum text length of 10,000 characters per check
  - Minimum 5 seconds between requests
- File System Access API is only supported in Chrome 86+, Edge 86+, and Opera 72+
  - Falls back to traditional file input and download methods in other browsers

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend Framework**: Next.js 14+ with app router
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui (built on Radix UI)
- **Markdown Processing**: remark, micromark
- **Code Highlighting**: Prism
- **Type Safety**: Zod for schema validation

## External Dependencies

- **LanguageTool API**: Used for grammar and spell checking
  - Primary endpoint: https://api.languagetool.org/v2/check
  - Fallback endpoint: https://languagetool.org/api/v2/check
- **File System Access API**: Modern browser API for file system operations

## Usage

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`:
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

3. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
npx next dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the application.

## Component Usage

```jsx
import { MarkdownEditor } from "@/components/markdown-editor";

export default function YourComponent() {
  return (
    <MarkdownEditor 
      initialValue="# Hello World\n\nI'm happy :smile: about this editor!"
      onChange={(value) => console.log(value)}
    />
  );
}
```

Commit message:

Add Mermaid.js support for diagram rendering in markdown
This update introduces Mermaid.js for rendering diagrams directly in markdown. It includes support for various diagram types, integration into the Markdown editor, and comprehensive tests to ensure functionality.

README.md, after:

# typostry

A Next.js markdown editor with real-time preview, grammar checking, theme support, and diagram rendering.

## Description

`typostry` is a feature-rich markdown editor built with Next.js that provides a seamless writing experience with real-time preview and advanced features like grammar checking, emoji support, executable JavaScript code blocks, and Mermaid diagrams.

## Features

### Markdown Editor
- Real-time markdown preview
- Toolbar with common markdown formatting shortcuts
- Theme support (light/dark)
- Emoji support using `:emoji_code:` syntax
- Executable JavaScript code blocks in preview mode
- Mermaid diagram support for visualizations
- Keyboard shortcuts for common operations

### Grammar Checking
- Real-time grammar and spelling error detection
- Suggestions for corrections
- Custom dictionary support
- Different severity levels for errors (low, medium, high)
- Error categorization (spelling, grammar, style, punctuation)

### File System Operations
- Create new files
- Open existing files directly from the local filesystem
- Save files directly to the opened file
- Save As functionality

## Limitations

- Grammar checking uses the LanguageTool API with the following limitations:
  - 20 requests per minute
  - 75KB per minute
  - 20KB per request
  - Maximum text length of 10,000 characters per check
  - Minimum 5 seconds between requests
- File System Access API is only supported in Chrome 86+, Edge 86+, and Opera 72+
  - Falls back to traditional file input and download methods in other browsers

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend Framework**: Next.js 14+ with app router
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui (built on Radix UI)
- **Markdown Processing**: remark, micromark
- **Code Highlighting**: Prism
- **Type Safety**: Zod for schema validation

## External Dependencies

- **LanguageTool API**: Used for grammar and spell checking
  - Primary endpoint: https://api.languagetool.org/v2/check
  - Fallback endpoint: https://languagetool.org/api/v2/check
- **File System Access API**: Modern browser API for file system operations

## Usage

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`:
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

3. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
npx next dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the application.

## Component Usage

```jsx
import { MarkdownEditor } from "@/components/markdown-editor";

export default function YourComponent() {
  return (
    <MarkdownEditor 
      initialValue="# Hello World\n\nI'm happy :smile: about this editor!"
      onChange={(value) => console.log(value)}
    />
  );
}
```

## Mermaid Diagram Support

The editor supports Mermaid diagrams for creating visualizations directly in your markdown. Simply use a code block with the "mermaid" language identifier:

```markdown
```mermaid
graph LR
A[Square Rect] -- Link text --> B((Circle))
A --> C(Round Rect)
B --> D{Rhombus}
C --> D
```

This will render as an interactive diagram in the preview:

![Mermaid Diagram Example](https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNpVjk2LwjAURf_KI6u24JC3GadQcOFGcDcP8nhtA01S8lFxKP3vTRwQZ3X53XNyJjSQCYrQe9a8NuQ7e_0w7TvTXN47pDHVyiVGnXbdYPc85F6R_cLb-JGjx7kdSMOdvSq2cPSdTXIQvMa9CkekRlW0XHuBZyGvQtZS1FJUUEQYUuRoT67NJH_CIkPLbobZYeQxQdGTCZhlIXL-i5bn6XzU4ZnTrS8uhrZQIB84f5s-1FD-8Wdr3V8OVUmV)
